In this short video, you are about to see
how an ancient Bible prophecy predicting the
next 2500 years of history in advance impacts
you I, who are living in these end times.
Daniel was written in the 6th century BC.
Skeptics have tried to discredit this book
by placing the date of it’s writing at a
later time, but archaeological evidence such
as the dating of the Dead Sea Scrolls help
show that Daniel was indeed written during
the time the Bible claims.
As we turn to the second chapter of this apocalyptic
book, we find ourselves in the courts of ancient
Babylon.
The great King Nebuchadnezzar has invaded
Judah and taken Daniel and his friends captive,
with the intention of educating them in the
Babylonian system.
The chapter begins with the king being troubled
by a startling nightmare.
He calls for the best and brightest men of
His kingdom to reveal to the king both his
dream and it’s interpretation.
These pagan men accurately declared to the
king “..There is not a man upon the earth
that can shew the king's matter.. there is
none other that can shew it before the king,
except the gods..”
-These men new that only a divine power could
actually reveal the unknown.
In his fury, the King then announced that
all the wise men of Babylon should be killed.
The message soon came to Daniel and his friends,
Hebrews who worshipped the God of the Bible.
Rather than panic, Daniel calmly requested
some time, so that he could join his friends
in prayer, seeking an understanding of the
king’s vision.
His prayer is recorded in Daniel 2:20-23:
“..Blessed be the name of God for ever and
ever: for wisdom and might are his: And he
changeth the times and the seasons: he removeth
kings, and setteth up kings: he giveth wisdom
unto the wise, and knowledge to them that
know understanding: He revealeth the deep
and secret things: he knoweth what is in the
darkness, and the light dwelleth with him.
I thank thee, and praise thee, O thou God
of my fathers, who hast given me wisdom and
might, and hast made known unto me now what
we desired of thee: for thou hast now made
known unto us the king's matter.”
God had revealed the king’s dream to Daniel!
Daniel is then quickly rushed into the king’s
presence.
The king eagerly asks Daniel if he is able
to reveal the dream to him.
Daniel responds with great wisdom: “The
secret which the king hath demanded cannot
the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians,
the soothsayers, shew unto the king; But there
is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets,
and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar
what shall be in the latter days.
Thy dream, and the visions of thy head upon
thy bed, are these..”
Here Daniel is giving all the credit to God.
He is also showing the difference between
the true God of the Bible and all the other
false religions which claim to know the truth.
Daniel now reveals the dream:
Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image.
This great image, whose brightness was excellent,
stood before thee; and the form thereof was
terrible.
This image's head was of fine gold, his breast
and his arms of silver, his belly and his
thighs of brass, His legs of iron, his feet
part of iron and part of clay.
Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out
without hands, which smote the image upon
his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake
them to pieces.Then was the iron, the clay,
the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken
to pieces together.. ..and the stone that
smote the image became a great mountain, and
filled the whole earth.
(Daniel 2:31-35)
At this time, the king is most certainly on
the edge of his seat, hanging on Daniel’s
every word.
Daniel then confidently precedes to reveal
the meaning of the dream to the king.
“Thou, O king, art a king of kings: for
the God of heaven hath given thee a kingdom,
power, and strength, and glory..Thou art this
head of gold.”
(Dan 2:37-38)
Daniel clearly identifies King Nebuchadnezzar
and his mighty kingdom of Babylon as the head
of gold represented in this dream.
Gold was a fitting symbol for Babylon as it
wealth and greatness were unrivaled in the
ancient world.
Greek historian Herodotus notes that “Babylon
surpasses in splendor any city in the known
world."
He goes on to describe the outer walls of
Babylon to be 320 feet high, 56 miles long,
and 80 feet thick – wide enough to race
multiple chariots side by side on top of them.
Babylon could also boast of the hanging gardens
– one of the 7 wonders of the ancient world.
However, much to the king’s dismay, his
kingdom would not last forever.
Daniel 2:39 reads “And after thee shall
arise another kingdom inferior to thee..”
(Daniel 2:39)
The history books are clear that, sure enough,
Babylon would be overtaken.
The Medo-Persian Empire would become the next
world power.
Before Medo-Persia would come to power, the
Bible identifies this kingdom by name:
Daniel 8:20 specifically states “..the kings
of Media and Persia.”
(Daniel 8:20)
The Persian army, led by Cyrus the Great,
conquered Babylon in 539 BC.
Silver was a fitting metal for this kingdom,
as Medo-Persia was inferior to Babylon, and
used silver as a primary mode of currency.
Daniel continues to boldly reveal the dream’s
meaning by describing the 3rd metal:
“..and another third kingdom of brass, which
shall bear rule over all the earth.”
(Daniel 2:39)
Historians agree that this next kingdom, led
by Alexander the Great, is none other than
the kingdom of Greece.
The Bible, once again, accurately predicted
this kingdom by name, centuries before it
rose to power:
Daniel 8:21 mentions “..the king of Grecia..”
(Daniel 8:21) as being the king who would
conquer Medo-Persia.
Daniel next addresses the legs of iron:
“And the fourth kingdom shall be strong
as iron: forasmuch as iron breaketh in pieces
and subdueth all things: and as iron that
breaketh all these, shall it break in pieces
and bruise.”
(Daniel 2:40)
A more fitting description could not be given
for the next kingdom – the powerful Empire
of Rome.
(image with 168 B.C. - 476 A.D.)
-Known for their dominant army and brutal
power, Rome has been given the fitting nickname
“the Iron Monarchy”.
This Empire, described in the New Testament
of the Bible, ruled during the time of Christ.
Roman soldiers whipped Jesus with an iron
“cat of nine-tails”, drove iron nails
into his innocent hands, and pierced His side
with an iron spear.
So far, God has revealed, the rise and fall
of 4 powerful world Empires.
The history books confirm the accuracy of
this amazing prophecy.
But Daniel was is not finished.
He goes on to describe the feet of this great
image, and with incredible detail, reveals
their historical significance:
And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes,
part of potters' clay, and part of iron, the
kingdom shall be divided..
..And as the toes of the feet were part of
iron, and part of clay, so the kingdom shall
be partly strong, and partly broken.
And whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry
clay, they shall mingle themselves with the
seed of men: but they shall not cleave one
to another, even as iron is not mixed with
clay.
(Daniel 2:41-43)
History affirms the Bible’s account that
Rome was not overtaken by a single dominant
empire, but was divided up into sections.
These sections are what we know today as modern
Europe.
Amazingly, Daniel reveals that these nations
would not “cleave one to another” – that
is, they would never unite into one dominant
kingdom.
Incredibly, history reveals that even this
very detailed part of the prophecy is accurate.
The Bible mentioned that they would “mingle
themselves with the seed men” – this intermarriage
of royalty was widespread.
But, as the Bible predicted, these nations
would not cleave.
Charlemagne tried to unite Europe, and failed.
Napoleon tried to unite Europe, and failed.
Hitler, despite controlling the majority of
the continent at one point, and being poised
to take control, failed unite Europe.
Europe has never, and will never, be united
into one Empire.
The Bible’s predictions have always come
to pass, and will never fail.
This prophecy of Daniel has revealed 2500
years of earth’s history with striking,
pinpoint accuracy.
But friends, there is still one part of the
prophecy that is yet to be fulfilled.
But we can be certain, we can have no doubts,
that it will come to pass just as surely as
the rest of this prophecy.
Speaking of the days of modern Europe, in
which we live in today, Daniel exclaims:
And in the days of these kings shall the God
of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never
be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be
left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and
it shall stand for ever.
(Daniel 2:44)
Daniel clearly states the final event of this
ground-breaking prophecy.
The God of Heaven will set up a kingdom that
will never be destroyed.
Friend, you can be a part of this kingdom!
You can live forever in paradise with the
God of the universe!
On this channel, we will support you as you
prepare for that kingdom, and will show you
how you can be a part of it.
If you have enjoyed this video, or if it has
been helpful to you, I encourage you to click
“like”, and subscribe to this channel.
If you would like to learn more about the
Bible’s teachings, and how they apply to
your life, I encourage you to continue to
watch Hope Through Prophecy.